stel4: jupiter not showing, sun appears to be shining

stel5: zoom out sun hidden

TODO: report above to stellarium and to answer

TODO: report bad positions to stellarium

wrong: Timespan from JED  2378482.500(18-DEC-1799) to JED  2524606.500(14-JAN-2200)

complaint to stellarium

sensitive to version of stellarium, i finally used 0.19.3 and it works

%%%%%%%%%%%%

Subject: Can gfoclt() find eclipses on the surfaces of bodies?

*****NAME OF GUY********,

Thanks again for all of your previous help with CSPICE.

While reading the documentation examples for gfoclt_c() at
https://naif.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/naif/toolkit_docs/C/cspice/gfoclt_c.html#Examples
I noticed that it says:

"Find occultations of the Sun by the Moon (that is, solar eclipses) as
seen from the *center* of the Earth over the month December, 2001"
[emphasis added]

However, just to clarify, this function won't necessarily find
eclipses on the *surface* of the Earth, is that correct?

I noticed that both the back body and the front body can be modelled
as triaxial ellipsoids, but the target must be a single point.

Is there a better way to find eclipses on the surface of bodies,
instead of at a central point?

I tried writing a penUmbralData() function that does this:

https://github.com/barrycarter/bcapps/blob/master/ASTRO/bclib.h#L728

but it only works if all three bodies are spherical (I also realize
this should be bclib.c not bclib.h), and it's not super accurate.

%%%%%%%%%%%%

Subject: Is lunar eclipse of 26 May 2021 really total?

[[[ATTACH!!!!]]]

********NAME*******,

While trying to write a function that computes eclipses on surfaces of
bodies, I ran into an unusual situation: it appears that the lunar
eclipse of 26 May 2021 is not quite total, unless I'm misunderstanding
the definition of total eclipse.

More specifically, if you're at the lunar north pole at the time of
greatest eclipse (2021-05-26 11:18:04.3 UTC), a small portion of the
Sun is still visible, at least according to Stellarium (see attached).

This would mean at least a small portion of the moon is not completely
darkened, which, to me, means this is not a total lunar eclipse. Am I
incorrect in this understanding?

I realize Stellarium does not use CSPICE for computations, but I ran
the computations with CSPICE and got a similar result. My computations
assume the Earth is spherical, but I use the equatorial radius, which
should overestimate a total eclipse, not underestimate it.

Even the diagram at
https://eclipse.gsfc.nasa.gov/5MCLEmap/2001-2100/LE2021-05-26T.gif
(and in
https://eclipse.gsfc.nasa.gov/LEplot/LEplot2001/LE2021May26T.pdf) show
that it's a very close call at best.

Appreciate your help as always!

%%%%%%%%%%%%

Subject: Jupiter lunar phenomena for 2019 appear inconsistent

I downloaded
https://s22380.pcdn.co/wp-content/uploads/WebJphenTab2019.pdf from
https://www.skyandtelescope.com/observing/a-jupiter-almanac/ and
noticed something unusual:


MORE THAN ONCE

Ec for an eclipse by Jupiterâ€™s shadow,
An occultation or eclipse
begins when the satellite disappears (D) and ends when it reappears (R).

Jan 1 4:08 I.Ec.D


greatest eclipse at 11:18:04.3

2021-05-26









